docs(pixtral): Update Pixtral model card to new format (#40442)
huggingface/transformers: docs/source/en/model_doc/pixtral.md

The [Pixtral](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07073) model was released by the Mistral AI team in a [blog post](https://mistral.ai/news/pixtral-12b/). Pixtral is a multimodal version of [Mistral](mistral), incorporating a 400 million parameter vision encoder trained from scratch.

The intro from the blog says the following:

*Pixtral is trained to understand both natural images and documents, achieving 52.5% on the MMMU reasoning benchmark, surpassing a number of larger models. The model shows strong abilities in tasks such as chart and figure understanding, document question answering, multimodal reasoning and instruction following. Pixtral is able to ingest images at their natural resolution and aspect ratio, giving the user flexibility on the number of tokens used to process an image. Pixtral is also able to process any number of images in its long context window of 128K tokens. Unlike previous open-source models, Pixtral does not compromise on text benchmark performance to excel in multimodal tasks.*

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/model_doc/pixtral_architecture.webp"
alt="drawing" width="600"/>

> <small> Pixtral architecture. Taken from the <a href="https://mistral.ai/news/pixtral-12b/">blog post.</a> </small>

Reviewer: Lets keep the image and caption

> [Pixtral](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07073) model was released by the Mistral AI team in a [blog post](https://mistral.ai/news/pixtral-12b/). It couples a 400 M-parameter vision encoder with a 12 B-parameter Mistral Nemo decoder and can ingest an arbitrary number of images at their native resolution (no resizing, no common padding) thanks to **2-D RoPE** position embeddings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Pixtral](https://huggingface.co/papers/2410.07073) is a multimodal model trained to understand natural images and documents. It accepts images in their natural resolution and aspect ratio without resizing or padding due to it's 2D RoPE embeddings. In addition, Pixtral has a long 128K token context window for processing a large number of images. Pixtral couples a 400M vision encoder with a 12B Mistral Nemo decoder.
```

> You can find all the original Pixtral checkpoints under the [mistral-community](https://huggingface.co/mistral-community) collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find all the original Pixtral checkpoints under the [Mistral AI](https://huggingface.co/mistralai/models?search=pixtral) organization.
```

> > Click any Pixtral model in the right-hand sidebar to explore additional multimodal examples (VQA, document Q&A, chart understanding, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Click on the Pixtral models in the right sidebar for more examples of how to apply Pixtral to different vision and language tasks.
```

> <hfoption id="AutoModel">

Reviewer: ```py
import torch
from transformers import AutoProcessor, LlavaForConditionalGeneration

model_id = "mistral-community/pixtral-12b"
model = LlavaForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(model_id, dtype="auto", device_map="auto")
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(model_id)

url_dog = "https://picsum.photos/id/237/200/300"
url_mountain = "https://picsum.photos/seed/picsum/200/300"

chat = [
    {
      "role": "user", "content": [
        {"type": "text", "content": "Can this animal"}, 
        {"type": "image", "url": url_dog}, 
        {"type": "text", "content": "live here?"}, 
        {"type": "image", "url" : url_mountain}
      ]
    }
]

inputs = processor.apply_chat_template(chat, add_generation_prompt=True, tokenize=True, return_dict=True, return_tensors"pt").to(model.device)
generate_ids = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=500)
output = processor.batch_decode(generate_ids, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False)[0]
```

from transformers import AutoProcessor, LlavaForConditionalGeneration

model_id = "mistral-community/pixtral-12b"
model = LlavaForConditionalGeneration.from_pretrained(model_id, dtype="auto", device_map="auto")
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(model_id)

url_dog = "https://picsum.photos/id/237/200/300"
url_mountain = "https://picsum.photos/seed/picsum/200/300"

chat = [
    {
      "role": "user", "content": [
        {"type": "text", "content": "Can this animal"}, 
        {"type": "image", "url": url_dog}, 
        {"type": "text", "content": "live here?"}, 
        {"type": "image", "url" : url_mountain}
      ]
    }
]

inputs = processor.apply_chat_template(chat, add_generation_prompt=True, tokenize=True, return_dict=True, return_tensors"pt").to(model.device)
generate_ids = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=500)
output = processor.batch_decode(generate_ids, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False)[0]
```

</hfoption>

</hfoptions>

Quantization reduces the memory burden of large models by representing the weights in a lower precision. Refer to the [Quantization](../quantization/overview) overview for more available quantization backends.

> The example below uses [bitsandbytes](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/quantization#bitsandbytes) to quantize the model to 4-bits, making it runnable on consumer GPUs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The example below uses [bitsandbytes](../quantization/bitsandbytes) to quantize the model to 4-bits.
```

)
processor = AutoProcessor.from_pretrained(model_id)

dog_url = "https://picsum.photos/id/237/200/300"
mountain_url = "https://picsum.photos/seed/picsum/200/300"
dog_image = Image.open(requests.get(dog_url, stream=True).raw)
mountain_image = Image.open(requests.get(mountain_url, stream=True).raw)

chat = [
    {
      "role": "user", "content": [
        {"type": "text", "text": "Can this animal"},
        {"type": "image"},
        {"type": "text", "text": "live here?"},
        {"type": "image"}
      ]
    }
]

prompt = processor.apply_chat_template(chat, tokenize=False, add_generation_prompt=True)
inputs = processor(text=prompt, images=[dog_image, mountain_image], return_tensors="pt")

inputs["pixel_values"] = inputs["pixel_values"].to(model.dtype)
inputs = {k: v.to(model.device) for k, v in inputs.items()}

generate_ids = model.generate(**inputs, max_new_tokens=100)
output = processor.batch_decode(generate_ids, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False)
print(output)
```

<img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/transformers/model_doc/pixtral_architecture.webp"
alt="drawing" width="600"/>

> <small> Pixtral architecture. Taken from the <a href="https://mistral.ai/news/pixtral-12b/">blog post.</a> </small>

Reviewer: The image and caption can be moved right under the opening paragraph

## Notes

- Pixtral uses [`PixtralVisionModel`] as the vision encoder and [`MistralForCausalLM`]  for its language decoder.
- The model internally replaces `[IMG]` token placeholders with image embeddings.

    ```py
    "<s>[INST][IMG]\nWhat are the things I should be cautious about when I visit this place?[/INST]"
    ```

>     The [IMG] tokens are replaced with a number of [IMG] tokens that depend on the height and width of each image. Each row of the image is separated by a [IMG_BREAK] token and each image is separated by a [IMG_END] token. Use the [~Processor.apply_chat_template] method to handle these tokens for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `[IMG]` tokens are replaced with a number of `[IMG]` tokens that depend on the height and width of each image. Each row of the image is separated by a `[IMG_BREAK]` token and each image is separated by a `[IMG_END]` token. Use the [`~Processor.apply_chat_template`] method to handle these tokens for you.
```

output = processor.batch_decode(generate_ids, skip_special_tokens=True, clean_up_tokenization_spaces=False)[0]
```

</hfoptions>

> ## Notes

Reviewer: Would be good to include an end-to-end quantization example as well

> - Pixtral is a multimodal model that follows the [Llava](llava) architecture, using a [`PixtralVisionModel`] and a [`MistralForCausalLM`] decoder.
> - The model internally replaces `[IMG]` token placeholders with image embeddings. To correctly format the prompt with text and images, it is highly recommended to use the `apply_chat_template` method of the processor, which handles the complex formatting automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pixtral uses [`PixtralVisionModel`] as the vision encoder and [`MistralForCausalLM`]  for its language decoder.
- The model internally replaces `[IMG]` token placeholders with image embeddings.

   ```py
   "<s>[INST][IMG]\nWhat are the things I should be cautious about when I visit this place?[/INST]"
  ```

   The `[IMG]` tokens are replaced with a number of `[IMG]` tokens that depend on the height and width of each image. Each row of the image is separated by a `[IMG_BREAK]` token and each image is separated by a `[IMG_END]` token. Use the [`~Processor.apply_chat_template`] method to handle these tokens for you.
```
